>> Steve Kinney: So let's,
let's go ahead, and we'll do that.
>> Steve Kinney: And
I'm going to go into the store index.
And I'm going to,
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah, let's pull it in.
We'll say, import.
I'm probably not gonna go
all the way with this,
because I'm gonna need
the saga in place first.
So I'm actually going to hastily abort
that decision, now that I think about it.
The first thing I really should do is
I need to separate this out
into two different actions.
Like right now, the thunk combines the,
hey, you want us to do this thing, and
I'm gonna resolve cuz it's done.
And we wanna say,
they click the button to go ahead and
initiate the fetch, and now we've got
all the items and we wanna do the thing.
So effectively what we're gonna
do is we're gonna unthunk this.
That's a new word,
you're allowed to use it.
So let's go ahead into item actions and
here we have a thunk from earlier.
We're going to start by unthinking it.
>> Steve Kinney: It's not really
getting all the items anymore.
So we will rename it.
>> Steve Kinney: Let's call it, or
we'll call this one updateAllItems.
>> Steve Kinney: Which is we've
gotten them at this point,
we wanna update the UI.
>> Steve Kinney: Naming things is hard.
All right, so
we've got the updateAllItems, and
that's gonna get the items passed to it.
All right, so here we are back to
a totally normal action creator.
>> Steve Kinney: So the other thing we
need to do is the other side at that,
which is, hey, the user in this
[INAUDIBLE] we're gonna do it
from the store itself like we
did in the previous example.
But like theoretically there could
be like our refresh button or
some kind of user request.
But we're gonna have the one that
triggers the request itself.
This one I may call export const.
>> Steve Kinney: Fetch item.
>> Steve Kinney: And fetch item just
wants to get all of them, right?
And what it's gonna do
is it's just gonna be,
>> Steve Kinney: I'll just call it fetch.
I don't have a constant for
that right now.
All right, so now our actions
is back to totally synchronous.
You know what we just got back?
Easy testing, right?
We just won back easy testing for
our action creators, which is pretty cool.
That said,
this doesn't like do anything anymore.
Now it just dispatches some actions and
this one isn't even
technically in my reducer.
So like [LAUGH] this one
can get called all day,
nothing's gonna happen, so that's nice.
Let's actually to ahead and
before we hook, like I'm really,
I want to hook the saga up to the store,
but I don't have a saga yet, right?
So I'm gonna go ahead and make a saga,
that seems the responsible thing to do.
Make a saga.js.
All right, so
I need to pull in some of the helpers.
>> Steve Kinney: And so
what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna import.
If you remember,
all was like all of the different
events that you wanted to listen to.
And we have call, which is go ahead and
make some asynchronous requests, and
then kick off the generator
when the promise resolves.
Put is dispatch a new action, and
takeEvery is basically a listing for
all of these events.
And this is gonna be
from redux-saga/effects.
>> Steve Kinney: Because
these are all side effects,
they're not things that are gonna passed
in, they are things that are happening
outside of the function that
were kind of tuning into.
All right, and so the other thing
I want to grab is that API,
quote unquote that we had before.
>> Steve Kinney: Api from ../lib/api.
All right, so we have that.
And we do want that update all items.
The update all items, remember,
we received from the network,
we want to display it in the UI.
So we're gonna need to like,
when we've received from the network,
we're gonna need to trigger that action,
so we import the update all items.
>> Steve Kinney: ../action/items-actions.
All right, very cool.
So now we have,
like remember like in react,
we have that one place that's we start.
The application component,
the provider component.
We need that starting saga.
So conventionally you should call it
Root Saga, call it whatever you want,
you shouldn't but like,
and that is a generator.
>> Steve Kinney: Root saga,
and all that's gonna do.
>> Steve Kinney: Is it's gonna call a
fetch items from API generated that I have
not written yet.
So let's go ahead and do that.
So export default, all right.
So all of a sudden we
receive a fetch item action.
We should probably fetch the items, right?
So export a function we will
call fetch items from API.
>> Steve Kinney: All right, and
what that's going to do is,
>> Steve Kinney: It's going to go head and
it's gonna take every,
>> Steve Kinney: Of the fetch items.
Actions get fired.
And it's gonna make an API request,
which we will also have to write.
And this is kind of cool if you think
about it, cuz it's effectively waiting for
future things to happen, right?
This is like, looking into the future.
Like when these happen,
I want to take that and handle it, and
pass it over to this make API request.
So it's kind of like looking
into not only asynchronous, but
it is also constantly waiting and
observing the state of our application.
All right, we have one more to make and
that is our,
>> Steve Kinney: Make API request that we
saw earlier.
>> Steve Kinney: And with most things
a sync, the reason we have to make so
many generators is once you're a
synchronous, that's a way of life for you.
It's mixing a sync code and synchronous
code is always a recipe for sadness, so
we tend to want to avoid
that whenever possible.
So here we'll say the items.
And again,
if you've used a sync wave before,
this will look familiar, like I'm
normally used to typing await here,
but this is user generator, so
we'll use yield call to Api.getAll.
>> Steve Kinney: So we'll pause,
we'll wait for that promise to resolve.
We'll take the result of that promise,
and we'll pass it to the items variable.
And then we can go ahead and
hand things back off
to the very like normal plane
object redux world, right?
We've separated out all of this
squirliness from that very pure and
simple redux that we got used
to in the very beginning.
We'll go ahead and yield and we'll put
the updateAllItems with the items.
All right, cool!
So now we have saga.
We have those very simple actions.
All we need to do is take this saga and
install it as middleware in redux.
>> Steve Kinney: All right.
>> Steve Kinney: We're gonna leave the
thunk in here because the rest of my app
is thunks, and
I'm not gonna be hasty here.
So bring in create saga
middleware from redux saga.
>> Steve Kinney: And cool, and so
then we'll also import that saga file.
>> Steve Kinney: So now we have
the ability to create saga middleware.
We have the saga file.
Let's go ahead and
create that saga middleware.
Let's do it after the imports.
I don't want to get yelled at.
>> Steve Kinney: And we'll say saga
middleware let's create saga middleware.
And the last thing to do is
put it alongside its buddy.
Remember when we cleared that logware
before and each piece of middleware was
responsive for kicking off the next
piece of middleware, right?
We're taking advantage of that here.
So they can live happily together.
And finally, we can comment this out,
because that thunk doesn't exist anymore.
We unthunked it if you recall,
and so we'll say saga middleware.
>> Steve Kinney: SagaMiddleware,
and kick off the generator.
>> Steve Kinney: All right,
here's it's open.
>> Steve Kinney: Nope.
All right, I'm gonna take
a-
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE]
Saw how you created action?
The yield all.
>> Speaker 3: Yeah, yield all.
>> Speaker 2: The rootsaga [INAUDIBLE].
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah,
I was like, I'll do that later.
The thing about promising to do stuff
later is that you actually have to do it.
>> Steve Kinney: All right.
>> Steve Kinney: I'm gonna go back and
take my five minutes.
>> Steve Kinney: So we're not getting to
the point where we make the API request.
So that's the next thing I need to handle.
>> Steve Kinney: What is it called now,
fetch items?
>> Steve Kinney: If you don't ever fire
the action, it's not gonna happen, right?
>> Steve Kinney: Let's verify that before
we get really confident that it was
something so simple.
Like we're all like, yeah,
yeah, that's what it was.
I'm even like, that's totally what it was.
>> Steve Kinney: So we're really excited
and we implemented everything and
then we refreshed the page and
it didn't happen.
It was everyone's favorite kind of
debugging where no error is thrown.
And you just have to basically
try stuff out until you find it.
And what we realized is that
originally we had this.
>> Steve Kinney: Which is
we dispatched the event and
then we started up the saga generator.
So that event was long gone.
By the time the saga generator started,
which meant everything
theoretically worked.
But if a tree falls and no one's around to
hear it, does it actually make a sound and
stuff along those lines.
So if we swap the saga, make sure that
we start the saga first and
then we swap over.
We'll see that we actually have
everything from our database.
Full disclosure,
that also happened when I was practicing.
And you'd think [LAUGH] I would have
been a little quicker on that one.
But, yeah, so order is really important.
We wanna make sure that
the generator is running and
taking every one of them
before we dispatch it, right?
And this is unique in this case, right?
Because this is when we're
doing directly on start up.
If we had moved this to componented mount,
we'll the store would have started up,
the generator would have started up, and
then the component would have mounted and
we wouldn't have found this issue.
If this was based on a user event, this
wouldn't have been an issue that came up.
But it's like in this unique situation
where we are immediately dispatching one.
That we find ourselves
which is in order of.
It's interesting for something
that is in a synchronous code and
pulling events from the future.
We can pull them from the future,
it's from the past that is the problem.
Cool.
So at this point we've got
a basic saga architecture.